#091 Labs AGM 2012#

The following is the consise version of the minutes for 091 Labs' AGM on Saturday 24th of November 2012.

## Schema followed ##

> Write the main topics that are discussed. Use bullet points and shorthand to record the details of the meeting. If any questions are posed write the question and note the solution.
>
> List all action items. Action items are the topics that will need follow up. You can list them in a separate area at the bottom of the page or use an indicator that is a clear identifier you can use when you type up the minutes after the meeting. For example, place a star next to each action item as you write. You will easily be able to identify each action item when typing your meeting minutes.

Question: **(Q)**

Answer: **(A)**

Problem: **(P)**

Solution: **(S)**

To do after meeting: **(Action)**

Anywhere with "Discussion of ..." means that no decision was made and should be discussed later on mailing list.

## Preamble ##

### Attending ###

#### Committee ####

* Padraic Harley (Chairman)
* Domhnall Walsh (Membership Secretary)
* Oisin Greaney (OCM)
* Michael O'Connor (OCM)

#### Members ####

* Callan Creaven
* Katie Creaven
* Donal Fallon
* Patrick Gavin
* Aaron Hastings
* Darren Kearney
* Alan Keaveney (via hangout)
* Alanna Kelly
* Simon Kennedy
* Matthew Kolder
* Paul MacEoin
* Shane Marks
* Ciaran McCool
* Keith McNamara
* Dermot Rhattigan
* Gerard Ryan
* Enda Scallon
* Duncan Thomas
* Tomas Wynne

#### Observers ####

* Jenny Magaraharan
* Aoife Maher (Secretary)

#### Apologies ####

* Conor Hoary (Treasurer)
* Carles Sentis (OCM)
* Eithne Crowley
* Joey Daniels
* Cathal Murphy
* Meredith Raley        

### Agenda Items ###

* Chairman's Report
* Treasurer's Annual Report
* Membership Secretary's Annual Report
* Changes to the Constitution
* Ratifying of the General Operating Procedures
* Membership Fee
<<<<<<< HEAD
* Election of Committee
* Task Teams
* Signatories
* Events
* Publicity
* Access
* Feng Shui
=======
 
* Election of Committee
* Task Teams
* Signatories
 
* Events
* Publicity
 
* Access
* Feng Shui
 
>>>>>>> a5272ce713d0247b0de05e3c6b6472bf1c908425
* The Mission of the Space
* AOB

## Docs ##

* [091 Labs - AGM 2012 agenda items - November 24th @ 7pm](https://github.com/091labs/governance/blob/master/minutes/agm2012_agenda.md)
* [AGM - Constitution](https://github.com/091labs/governance/blob/master/constitution.md)
* [AGM - General Operating Procedure](https://github.com/091labs/governance/blob/master/gop.md)

## Meeting ##

* Padraic lists the items on the Agenda for the AGM in order of discussion.

### Chairman's Report: Padraic Harley ###

#### Logo ####

* Padraic displayed a logo suggestion from Cian Curran: 091 Labs - Think. Create. Share

#### Location ####

* This time last year we were unsure of continued existence of the hackerspace. We were in the new space for 3/4 months, membership  low (20-25) and money not great, living off surplus from having no space.
* Since then we've moved again to Flood Street and have around 50 members. Our finances not terrible but not great either.

#### Keys ####

* All Tyrone House keys being collected though many missing still.

**(Q)** How many keys cut?

**(A)** 33 with 6-8 returned

* Oisin is collecting the keys.

**(Action)** Proposal to not give new keys to Flood Street to members until the they hand back old keys.

#### Events ####

* Attended during the year:
    * Dublin Makerfaire
    * Volvo Ocean Race
    * CloudBusting @ GMIT
    * Padraic's opinion was that the Labs haven't done enough classes or talks this year.
    * Nor was Open Night well attended or publicized.

**(Action)** **(Goal)** To have at least one event/class once a week with one member in charge of it.

#### Publicity ####

* 091 Labs is known around town.
* Recognition on the increase.

**(Q)** How do we know?

**(A)** Word of mouth, Facebook and Twitter reposting. Also additional members.

* Based on this time last year
* 250 more likes on Facebook
* 400 more Twitter followers
* Could do much more this year, more attention and ideas needed to keep the place going.
* More of the members of the hackerspace needed to help out and get involved.

**(Action)** Publicise things more in advance to increase attendance.

#### Members ####

* To be covered by Domhnall's report.

**(P)** New groups coming in and new members joining. Members are unaware of developments which is causing confusion and annoyance.

**(S)** We need to try to keep members in the loop more from now on.

**(Action)** Ciaran was not sure of number of membership in for next 6 months after bulk memberships and wishes to focus on events during those periods and to start off as soon as possible.

#### Finances ####

* Aren't as bad as last year: &euro;350 bank balance.
* Rent fine at the moment though Padraic is worried about January as December is normally a quiet month.

**(P)** 091 Labs regularly plays catch-up after quiet months

**(S)** To raise surplus of cash for emergency fund of at least two month's rent.

**(P)** Duncan raises the opinion that 091 Labs has committed fraud.

* Padraic explains situation
    * 091 Labs is building new 3d printer
    * Received €400 sponsorship
    * Sponsorship was used in low month for rent
    * 3d printer has been out of order since August and no requests for the funds have been made by members

**(S)** Consensus is to move money back to printer fund as it becomes available.

**(Q)** How much does the Sponsor mind?

**(A)** He asks about the new 3d printer when he speaks to members. When it gets built he should get a token/model of something.

**(Action)** Padraic is going to speak to the Sponsor to explain situation.

**(Q)** An amount of people have signed up with 6 and 12 month bulk memberships. When do they next need to pay membership?

**(A)**

* Most people who have used it was to pay fees already owed.
* 7 members have paid a bulk membership lasting past this month.
* Most last until March.
* Most of the bulk membership money was used last month:
    * Deposit and rent on Flood Street
    * Rent on old place
    * Bills
    * Insurance
* The aim was to put in seperately but saved funds were not adequate. We looked into obtaining loan to cover deposit but bank refused due to Club account.
* Individual members could have taken out a loan separately and but Padraic didn't want to do it that way.

**(Q)** Why not ask a Credit Union? Are we a member?

**(A)** Enquired but denied to lack of affiliation. Not a member at present. Members believed that the Labs would easily get an account.

**(Action)** Labs to look into a Credit Union account.

#### General ####

**(Q)** We've discussed member discounts at meetings. Valid points being raised but thought it was already covered?

**(A)** Labs isn't a static place so opinions and rules will change over time.

**(P)** Many members can't and don't make the meetings leading to lack of knowledge of goings-on. Meetings are not a good forum for discussions.

**(S)** Get rid of meetings and replacing with more consensus-based system. Mailing list specifically for proposals.

**(Action)** Set up a proposal mailing list.

**(Q)** Any upcoming internal/external fundraising or events?

**(A)** Not many, no. Some classes, lans, etc have been spoken about but no definite booked or confirmed. If people have more suggestions for events, talk after.

* The following questions were raised which Padraic said were not focused on the long term or required too much discussion for the AGM. They should be discussed on the appropriate lists.

**(Q)** Can we keep half membership money aside for investing to create money for rent and things?

**(Q)** Should every member put two euro in to make a Credit Union account?

**(Q)** If we save into Credit Union, is there anything stopping us from getting a loan and using it for the 3d printer?

**(Q)** Should a saving club be set up for a laser cutter?

    * An award system needs to be figured out for funding it.
    * More projects are required before we'll get funding.
    * There'll always be someone to fund something new.

**(Q)** If raising money, should we have discounts for memberships? Different membership fees for people who can afford it - should they get discounts? More people pay more if you do discounts?

**(Q)** Should we, by default, not offer discounts? Can we allow people give as much as they want and then offer discounts to those that need them?

* Padraic stated that reason the report covered so many areas was to answer questions on behalf of the treasurer.
* Future: Padraic encouraged the members to ask: what do people want to see and do in the Labs?

* Padraic thanks to everyone for being members.
* Michael thanks to Padraic on behalf of the members.

### Membership Secretary's Report: Domhnall Walsh ###

* Time period covered by report is August 2011 to August 2012 due to gap in financial statements for more recent months.
* August 2011: 22 members. Mostly employed. €585 paid in altogether
* August 2012: 34 members. Mostly unemployed/students. 11 members from August '11 no longer involved. 
* Membership income graph.
    * Average (corrected) amount: 693 euro per month
    * Different coloured lines denote averages and changes after correction.
    * Money is under the bar of what we need for rent, bills etc.
    * Only one bulk payment relevant during this period and had no impact on figures
* Currently an estimate of 53 members, big spike.
* Between 16th Oct (just after moving to Flood Street) and this week, 091 Labs had 12 new people sign up.
* From incomplete information, membership climbing, keep it up and keep involved
* Impossible to resove reliably without calculating for entire period for which records are available
* Current spreadsheet system makes this very difficult - need to look at better system to manage this.
* There are also some gaps in the existing data that need to be looked at.
* Right now there's an unreliable picture given due to different cases. Need more reliable system.

#### Next steps ####

* Update management system for membership records
* Ascertain accurately the state of the membership records
* Fix/resolve gaps in the member

**(Q)** Will the new Treasurer catch up with all this or will a committee be set up?

**(A)** Membership Secretary will be in charge of this, Treasurer in charge of incoming and outgoing money. Need all info to fix gaps. Treasurer could help though.

**(P)** We seem to not be tracking expenses well.

**(S)** We need to get and keep bank statements

**(Q)** Charity status? 

**(A)** We looked into charity status. Not worth the hassle, expense, and paper work for the Labs.

**(Q)** Members can be lax unless deadline. Should there be a date for membership payment per month suggestion?

**(A)** Many people set up before 12th or 14th. Those paying in cash should be advised to change to online. Quick payment is an alternative to Standing Order so those with bad finances won't be in trouble with fees.

* Those overdue need to be e-mailed to say they're overdue and card becomes inactive and membership deactivated.

**(Q)** Reasons for membership numbers declining? 

**(A)** Most of those leaving were because they left Galway or because the weren't using the space.

* Suggestions for feed-back forms examining why.
* Questionnaire already made and will be put up.

* Domhnall mentioned a management system as common banner to see who has keys, membership status, etc. All data together in one place.
* Padraic says it's planned for Project F5 - the refresh of website and logo along with member management system.

### Treasurer's Report: Padraic Harley on behalf of Conor Hoary ###

* Standardized system should be used by new Treasurer. Keep files that anyone can check. Treasurer to make sure data widely available.
* Information should not be available on who is paying what amounts.
* Usable format needed.
* Accounts with no names.
* Just totals.
* Treasurer's report needs graphs, figures, for comparison. Actual data needed.
* Optimal situation to have finances kept up with each month. Next Treasurer can decide the solution.

### Constitution Changes ###

* 3.2 passed with change removing committee power to add to GOP without members
* 3.4 passed

* Opinion that we elect people who we trust to represent us and make the right decision.

**(Q)** Is there a minimum member vote? What if nobody votes?

**(A)** People can vote in advance. All members have choice to vote but don't have to. We have a time-limit on the vote. If people don't vote, then it means whatever raised not an issue for them.

* If not unanimus concensus, it can be made into a vote.

**(Q)** Timelimit to reach concensus?

**(A)** A week suggested.

* 4.9 passed
* Opinion that people need to contact the Membership Secretary when leaving it and should be worded as such

* 5.2 passed

* Committee to be made up of full members.
* Specific duties left undefined to be changed in GOP.
* OCMs were not relevant.

* 5.4 passed 

**(Q)** re: events officer. Everything shouldnt be one person's fault. 

**(A)** Only outlines the positions. Not only person who can do something, whole responsibilty on everyone, not just one.

* Quarterly reports on Labs status by Membership Secretary
* One person making sure minutes are taken at any meeting

**(Q)** Should this be the Membership Secretary's responsibility?

**(A)** No, but the Membership Secretary should keep and file them for access.

* Monthly finance report by the Treasurer to be defined in GOP
* Event Officer: Not organising everything. Rephrased to Event Support Officer by general consensus
* Discussion of phrasing for Consitution

* Constitution should be broad and long-term and General Operating Procedure specific and day-to-day

**(Q)** Buildings Officer doesn't deal with rent? Language of organising utilities?

**(A)** More about maintaining the daily upkeep of the space. Treasurer would sort rent.

**(Q/P)** Everyone is responsible for the upkeep of the space, not one person.

**(A)** We need someone who says it, gets people to get it done, but yes, everyone is still responsible.

* Insurance, Power, Internet are shared responsibilities for Treasurer and Buildings Officer.
* Buildings Officer should keep track of expenses for daily stuff and liase with the Treasurer.
* Discussion of renaming position as "Quartermaster" or "Logistics Coordinator"
* Padraic says the name isn't the issue and to discuss on the list. Wants members to agree on position points instead.

* 5.5 passed

* 5.6 passed

**(Q)** Can a full member be an interim committee member?

**(A)** Yes. Takes responsibility until EGM.

* 5.7 passed

**(Q)** Archivist roles in the labs? Need someone keeping an archive of the Labs.

**(A)** Agreed but not a committee position. Should discuss on list.

* 6.7 passed

* 8.3 passed

**(Q)** 20% quorum for what?

**(A)** For a General Meeting, e.g. need 10 people to legitimize it.

* Quorum is for general meetings only

**5 minute break**

### General Operating Procedure ###

* Common sense is not actually common...
* Emphasise the rules for better use of the shared space.
* Daily procedure - changes made easily. Fluid, change via mailing list.
* Specific mailing list needed -proposals - where changes/suggestions go to avoid clutter on primary list.
* Age 18 or accompanied by guardian required

**(Q)** Age thing necessary?

**(A)** Until clarified, yes.

* Discussion of Garda Vetting

**(Q)** Have there been under 18s?

**(A)** Yes, and there's been interest from under-agers. Cases of kids with guardians. CoderDojo members have asked about membership.

**(Action)** Duncan volunteers to look into the legal side of underage activity

* Physical changes need to be discussed in advance - refers to long-term/permanent changes.

**(Q)** How do we enforce leaving the place better than found it?

**(A)** Buildings officer to deal with it as it comes up. Card system.

* Suggestion of tagging items with QR codes and bringing up where it's supposed to  be, how to use it, who knows how to use it. Discussion to follow on list.

* If not trained in how to use something, ASK. Say using it on mailing list and ask there for help. Safety sheet on the item.

* People buying stuff for labs should be compensated if they have receipts by Treasurer.

* Committee monthly meeting.

**(Q)** Committee meeting doesn't need minutes. People won't do anything.

**(A)** We need it to keep track of things. Just committee, not everyone. Once a month.

* Conflicts should be private.

* Discussion of Membership forms processing.

**(Q)** Welcome email for new members?

**(A)** Membership Officer should takes care of that.

* Discussion of mailing lists
* Discussion of full membership

**(Q)** Send email to Membership Secretary or mailing list for applying for full membership?

**(A)** Automated if possible? They should keep an eye on it and let people know.

* Discussion of storage.

* Separation of private, public, and project storage.

* Standard rate rather than employed rate - if you can, do, but if you can't, ask and something will be sorted out.
* Breaking up roles. Whoever takes the role should make a crew of people to help them, too much work for one person. Person elected should choose who to get to alleviate their work. 

* Agreement to accept General Operating Procedure and discuss any issues on the list.

** Conclusion **

These are things to be spoken about later on the mailing list

* Task Teams
* Signatories
* Events
* Publicity
* Access
* Feng Shui
* The Mission of the Space

### Election of the new committee ###

* Membership Secretary: Domhnall Walsh
* Treasurer: Matthew Kolder
* Events Support Officer: Shane Marks
* PRO: Katie Creaven
* Buildings Officer: Darren Kearney
